# Nastech_Project

In a growing popultion and population's varying interests, there is rapid growth of data collection that has led to a new era of information. Data is being used to create more efficient systems and this is where Recommendation Systems come into play. Recommendation Systems are a type of information filtering systems as they improve the quality of search results and provides items that are more relevant to the search item or are realted to the search history of the user. They are used to predict the rating or preference that a user would give to an item. Almost every major tech company has applied them in some form or the other: Amazon uses it to suggest products to customers, YouTube uses it to decide which video to play next on autoplay, and Facebook uses it to recommend pages to like and people to follow. Moreover, companies like Netflix and Spotify depend highly on the effectiveness of their recommendation engines for their business and success. For building this recommendation engine we have used the following datasets,

TMDB 5000 Movie Dataset,
The Movies Dataset.

Source used are:

links for the above dataset are,

(TMDB 5000 Movie Dataset) https://www.kaggle.com/tmdb/tmdb-movie-metadata

(The Movies Dataset) https://www.kaggle.com/rounakbanik/the-movies-dataset


The first dataset contains the following features:-

movie_id - A unique identifier for each movie.

cast - The name of lead and supporting actors.

crew - The name of Director, Editor, Composer, Writer etc.

The second dataset has the following features:-

budget - The budget in which the movie was made.

genre - The genre of the movie, Action, Comedy ,Thriller etc.

homepage - A link to the homepage of the movie.

id - This is infact the movie_id as in the first dataset.

keywords - The keywords or tags related to the movie.

original_language - The language in which the movie was made.

original_title - The title of the movie before translation or adaptation.

overview - A brief description of the movie.

popularity - A numeric quantity specifying the movie popularity.

production_companies - The production house of the movie.

production_countries - The country in which it was produced.

release_date - The date on which it was released.

revenue - The worldwide revenue generated by the movie.

runtime - The running time of the movie in minutes.

status - "Released" or "Rumored".

tagline - Movie's tagline.

title - Title of the movie.

vote_average - average ratings the movie recieved.

vote_count - the count of votes recieved.



The filtering methodes used are:

There are basically three types of recommender systems:-

Demographic Filtering- They offer generalized recommendations to every user, based on movie popularity and/or genre. The System recommends the same movies to users with similar demographic features. Since each user is different , this approach is considered to be too simple. The basic idea behind this system is that movies that are more popular and critically acclaimed will have a higher probability of being liked by the average audience.

Content Based Filtering- They suggest similar items based on a particular item. This system uses item metadata, such as genre, director, description, actors, etc. for movies, to make these recommendations. The general idea behind these recommender systems is that if a person liked a particular item, he or she will also like an item that is similar to it.

Collaborative Filtering- This system matches persons with similar interests and provides recommendations based on this matching. Collaborative filters do not require item metadata like its content-based counterparts.

We create recommenders using demographic , content- based and collaborative filtering. While demographic filtering is very elemantary and cannot be used practically, Hybrid Systems can take advantage of content-based and collaborative filtering as the two approaches are proved to be almost complimentary
